If you had stood there in the edge of the bleak spruce forest, with the
wind moaning dismally through the twisting trees—midnight of deep
December—the Transcontinental would have looked like a thing of fire;
dull fire, glowing with a smouldering warmth, but of strange ghostliness
and out of place. It was a weird shadow, helpless and without motion,
and black as the half Arctic night save for the band of illumination
that cut it in twain from the first-coach to the last, with a space like
an inky hyphen where the baggage car lay. Out of the North came armies
of snow-laden clouds that scudded just above the earth, and with these
clouds came now and then a shrieking mockery of wind to taunt this
stricken creation of man and the creatures it sheltered—men and women
who had begun to shiver, and whose tense white faces stared with
increasing anxiety into the mysterious trainmandarkness of the night that hung
like a sable curtain ten feet from the car windows.

For three hours those faces had peered out into the night. Many of the
prisoners in the snowbound coaches had enjoyed the experience somewhat
at first, for there is pleasing and indefinable thrill to unexpected
adventure, and this, for a brief spell, had been adventure de luxe.
There had been warmth and light, men’s laughter, women’s voices, and
children’s play. But the loudest jester among the first coach was now silent,
huddled deep in his great coat; and the young woman who had clapped her
hands in silly ecstasy when it was announced that the train was
snowbound was weeping and shivering by turns. It was cold—so cold that
the snow which came sweeping and swirling with the wind was like
granite-dust; it _clicked, clicked, clicked_ against the glass—a
bombardment of untold billions of infinitesimal projectiles fighting to
break in. In the edge of the forest it was probably forty degrees below
zero. Within the coaches there still remained some little warmth. The
burning lamps radiated it and the presence of many people added to it.
But it was cold, and growing colder. A gray coating of congealed breath
covered the car windows. A few men had given their outer coats to women
and children. These men looked most frequently at their watches. The
adventure de luxe was becoming serious.

For the twentieth time a passing train-man was asked the same question.

“The good Lord only knows,” he growled down into the face of the young
woman whose prettiness would have enticed the most chivalrous attention
from him earlier in the evening. “Engine and tender been gone three
hours and the divisional point only twenty miles up the line. Should
have been back with help long ago. Hell, ain’t it?”

The young woman did not reply, but her round mouth formed a quick and
silent approbation of his final remark.

“Three hours!” the trainman continued his growling as he went on with
his lantern. “That’s the hell o’ railroading it along the edge of the
Arctic. When you git snowed in you’re _snowed in_, an’ there ain’t no
two ways about it!”

He paused at the smoking compartment, thrust in his head for a moment,
passed on and slammed the door of the car after him as he went into the
next coach.
